        Building Artisynth with Ant
        ---------------------------

    Jakub Vondrak, November 12, 2006

This document describes basic usage of Apache Ant building system with Artisynth.

Requirements
------------

 For building to work, Apache Ant must be installed and properly configured.
 Ant binaries and installation instructions can be found on following URL:
 http://ant.apache.org/

Ant basics
----------

 Apache Ant is a Java-based build tool. An alternative to make. Build process
 is described in XML file (usually) called build.xml and build configuration can
 be put to separate configuration file typically called build.properties.
 Build.xml consists of several targets, which can be called by user. Targets 
 consits of tasks. Ant can be extended by writing custom tasks (many additional
 tasks are already available).  

Usage
-----

 Switch to Artisynth root directory and type:
  ant [target]
  
  When target is not specified, available targets are displayed.
  
Description of currently available targets
------------------------------------------

 compile 
  Compiles source to prepare directory.

 jar      
  Compiles sources and makes jar from sources and all other data and 
  configuration files in source directory.
  
 javadoc
  Generates javadoc to doc/api directory 
  
 distrib  
  Makes complete distribution. Compiles sources, makes jar, generates javadoc
  and zips everything into distrib directory.
  
Usage examples:
---------------

 Custom build configuration
  Make build-dev.properties file in Artisynth root directory and override any
  desired variable from build.properties. Don't commit build-dev.properties to
  version system - it's only yours and every developer can have his special
  settings.

  You can even specify additional library, which is located outside /lib 
  directory. For example you put in build-dev.properties: 

  libraries = c:\\custom-libs\\vrml\\j3d-vrml97.jar
  
  This will cause, that your additional library will be added to compile 
  classpath, it will be copied into /lib directory when making distribution and
  it will be listed in Class-Path in manifest.mf in Artisynth jar file. 
