Creating the Java docs:
    % cd $ARTISYNTH_HOME
    % make javadocs
    
    Then point brower at $ARTISYNTH_HOME/docs/javadocs/index.html

Component hierarchy:

    All ArtiSynth models are composed of a hierarchy of components.

    Components are named either by explicit name, or by number.

    Collections of components (such as lists of particles or bodies)
    are components themselves.

Navigation Panel

    Allows selection of anything within the component hierarchy.

    Large collections (typically > 100) of anonymous, numbered
    components are generally hidden by default.

Play Controls (on main frame and also on the timeline)

    Reset: resets simulation time to 0

    Play/pause: starts/stops simulation

    Single step: executes a single step. Note: currently, the length of
    this step typically defaults to 10 msec. It can be set by the
    -singleStepTime argument, which takes an argument is seconds,
    or by changing the number in the 'Time Step' box on the timeline.    

Timeline

    Facilitates graphical arrangement of input and output probes.

Viewer

    Enables model and components can be viewed and selected.

    View controls:

	Middle mouse - rotate about center point
	SHIFT middle mouse - translate
	CTRL middle mouse or wheel - zoom

    Key controls:

	'a' toggles world coordinate axes
	'g' toggles the grid
	'o' toggles orthographic/perspective projection

    Viewer control bar:

	Axis icon sets predetermined axis-aligned views.

	Clip Plane icon creates clip planes:

	    Each clip plane is color coded and comes with its own icon. 

	    Clicking on the icon enables/disables clipping. 

	    Right clicking on the icon brings up a clip plane option menu.

	    Clip planes can be moved using the attached dragger.

Viewer Selection

    Components can be selected in the viewer by left clicking on them.
    Not all components are "visible", and so not all can be selected this way.

    Use CTRL key for multiple selection.

    Use a drag box for group selection.

Selection filter (lower left of the main screen)

    Controls what is selected, mainly to help reduce what is selected
    by a group selection.

    To restrict selections, type the name of the class that you wish selections
    to be restricted to. The leaf name should be sufficient, as the system will
    try to match this with a full class name.

    Previous filters are stored in a history list.

    To allow anything to be selected, type or select '*'.
    
Selection display

    Displays the full path name of the most recently selected item.

    To select the parent of this item, click on the up arrow at the left
    of the selection display.

Transformers

    Allows selected components can be scaled, translated, or rotated.

	Select tool: resets to normal selection mode

	Scale tool:
	    click on an axis, scales in 1D along axis
	    click in a plane, scales in 2D in that plane

	Translate tool: 
	    click on an axis, translates in 1D along axis
	    click in a plane, translates in 2D in that plane
			
	TransRotate tool:
	    combination of translation and rotation tool

	Rotate tool: 
	    click on a circle, rotates about that circle

	Constrained translate tool
	    Only for markers: translates them but constrains them to lie on 
            their surface mesh

Timeline

    Facilitates graphical arrangement of input and output probes
    and way points.

    Buttons and widgets along the top of the timeline:

	zoom in and zoom out buttons

        place model button (not currently used)

        play controls, including those described above, plus
	fast forward and fast backward, which skip forward or ahead
	to the next valid way point.

	Set button (not currently used)

        Save Probes button, which saves all probe data to their associated
        files (for probes which are in fact associated with files).

	Current Time box, which displays the current simulation time in secs.
 
        Time Step box, which controls the time interval for the single 
        step command.

Timeline: Waypoints and Breakpoints

    At the top of the timeline is the "model track" along which waypoints
    may be placed. Waypoints save the model state when the simulation passes
    through them, allowing the timeline to be later reset to that point
    (using the fast forward/backward buttons) without having to recompute
    the simulation from time 0.

    To add a waypoint, place the mouse inside the model track, and
    click the right mouse button. A popup menu will show a number of
    options, including "Add Waypoint Here", which will add a waypoint
    at the current location of the time cursor, and "Add Waypoint",
    which will add a waypoint at a time specified by a dialog box.

    Waypoints are indicated by a small rectangular blue box. A solid
    box indicates a waypoint that contains valid state (and can
    be advanced to using the fast forward/backward buttons).

    Once created, waypoints can be moved by dragging them. They can
    also be deleted by right clicking on them and selecting the
    "Delete" option.

    Breakpoints are waypoints that also cause the simulation to stop.
    They are displayed in red instead of blue.

    Breakpoints can be added in the same way as waypoints.

    Waypoints can be converted into breakpoints (and vice versa)
    by right clicking on them and choosing the appropriate popup option.

Timeline: Tracks and Probes

    Probes are arranged on tracks located beneath the model track. There
    are separate tracks for input and output probes. 

    To add a track, place the mouse over the model track, right click,
    and select either "Add Input Track" or "Add Output Track".

    Probes can be moved around on the same track, or between tracks,
    by dragging them. Probes are not allowed to overlap.

    Muting/unmuting probes: left click the red button at the left of the track.
    Muted probes are ignored by the simulation.

    To mute/unmute all probes, left click to the red button at the left of the
    model track.

    A number of probe settings can be controlled by placing the mouse over
    the probe and right clicking.

Timeline: Probe Displays

    The data associated with a probe is visible within a probe's display.

    To view a probe's display, EXPAND the probe by left clicking the 
    green arrow at the right of the track. This will expand the display
    for all probes on that track. To hide the display, left click the
    green arrow again.

    Numeric probe data:

    Data associated with numeric probes is displayed as a graph within
    the display. If the probe contains a vector with more than one
    value, each entry in the vector is drawn using a different color
    (up to a limit, after which colors are recycled).

    Data for input probes can be changed by adding, deleting, or moving
    knot points in the display.

	To move a knot point, left click on the knot and drag it.

        To add a knot point, place the mouse at the desired location
        and double left-click.

        To delete a knot point, right ckick on the knot and select 
        "Delete Data Point".

    All knot points can be made invisible/visible by right clicking in the 
    display and selecting "(In)visible Data Points". 

    Three types of interpolation are available for numeric probes:
    Step, linear, and cubic. The interpolation can be set by right clicking
    in the display and selecting the desired one.

    The range of the display data can also be set by right clicking in
    the display and selecting "Set Display Range". This creates a
    dialog that lets the user either set the range explicitly, or ask
    for it to be computed automatically.

    A large display can be created for each probe by right clicking on
    the probe icon and selecting "Large Display".

Editing Component Properties

    The properties of any currently selected components can be edited
    by right clicking in the viewer or the navigation panel and 
    selecting "Edit Properties". This will create a persitent 
    panel that allows properties to be set for the current
    component(s). If multiple components are selected, only those
    properties common to all components will be presented in the panel.

    By default, property values are updated whenever the simulation is
    running. This feature can be toggled by left-clicking the "live
    updating" icon in the property panel.

Editing Render Properties

    The render properties of any currently selected renderable components 
    can be editing by right clicking in the viewer or the navigation panel and 
    selecting "Edit Render Properties".

    Render properties include:

	visible: whether or not the component is visible
	alpha: the transparency for polygonal faces (default 1)
	shading: how polygons are shaded (FLAT, GOURARD, PHONG)
	shininess: shininess parameter for polygons

	faceStyle: which polygonal faces are drawn (FRONT, BACK,
	    FRONT_AND_BACK, NONE)
        faceColor: color used for drawing faces
        backColor: color used for drawing backs of faces 
        drawEdges: if true, face edges are drawn explicitly
        textureProps: sets texture mapping properties for the face
	
	lineStyle: how lines are drawn (CYLINDER or LINE)
        lineColor: the color for lines
        lineSize: line size in pixels when LINE style is selected
        lineRadius: cylinder radius used when CYLINDER style is selected 
        lineSlices: num slices used to render CYLINDER style cylinders
        
	pointStyle: how points are drawn (SPHERE or POINT)
        pointColor: the color for points
        pointSize: point size in pixels when POINT style is selected
        pointRadius: sphere radius used when SPHERE style is selected 
        pointSlices: num slices used to render SPHERE style spheres
        
    The visibility of currently selected components can also be controlled
    by right clicking in the viewer or the navigation panel and selecting 
    "Set invisible" or "Set visible", as appropriate.

Component Editing

    Component editing in ArtiSynth is driven by the selection context.
    A right click on the current selection causes the editor manager
    to determine what editing commands are available for the current
    selection, and menu items for these are placed in the context
    popup.


 

    
    
    

    



